Woodside Priory School was founded in 1957 by a group of seven Hungarian Benedictine monks from Saint Martin’s Archabbey in Pannonhalma, Hungary

The School began as an 18 acre ranch and over the years has expanded significantly with the campus now encompassing 51 acres.

Originally the School was an all-male boarding school, but over the years the ratio of boarders to day students has changed to the point where today the boarding school accounts for approximately 20% of the student body. 

In the early 1990’s, the School began admitting females to their day program with the first co-ed class graduating in 1995. In 2004, the School expanded its boarding program to include females.

Priory’s Benedictine Values are spirituality, hospitality, integrity, individuality, and community 

The Benedictine Monks of Saint Anselm Abbey in Manchester, New Hampshire own and operate The Priory.

The school is governed by two Boards—a Board of Directors consisting of five Benedictine Monks (appointed and elected from Saint Anselm and Priory communities) and a Board of Trustees which has limited jurisdiction and consists of parents, non-parents, alumni and friends of the school. 

The priory mission is to assist all students in creating meaningful and balanced lives, developing as lifelong learners and stewards, and productively serving a world in need of their gifts.

The Priory thrives on diversity. Nearly half our student population are students of color who come from various socioeconomic, ethnic, and regional backgrounds. 

The Priory has an Equity and Inclusion committee comprised of faculty and staff at the school. Anyone can join this committee; these people are committed to diversity, equity, inclusion and justice and meet on their own time.

Affinity groups are safe spaces for people based on different parts of human identity, such as race, nationality, gender, sexual orientation, and more. Right now, as it stands, students create their own organizations that act as affinity groups. Examples of these are clubs such as: PRISM (Priory’s Rainbow Institution of Sexuality Matters), Dedicated 2 Diversity, and Latinos Unidos.
